This repo contains various machine learning models such as Linear Regression, Polynomial Regression, Naive Bayes, K-Fold cross validation, Decision Tree, SVM, K-Means Clustering, Principal component analysis, and a CNN based image classification model.

Linear Regression is used to show relationship between depended and independent variables. Equation for linear regression can be written as Y=mx+c. The main reason for using linear regression could be to predict the output of the independent when changes are make to the dependent variables.Note: A linear regression model can be built in just few steps, However, there might be additional steps required based on the accuracy achieved and the requirements of the industry.This model tries to import random numerical values and try to plot/pass a linear linear line through that line.

Simply put,Polynomial regression models can bend. Similar to Linear regression, Polynomial Regression models also show the relationships between the dependent and the independent variables. Which means if independent variables go through a change, dependent variables will also go through a change and vice-versa.This model imports data points for salaries received by various positions held. The goal of this model is to pass a curved line through those points.

Naive Bayes is a machine learning classsification algorithm. The output generated by Naive Bayes algorithm is usually in the form of 1's and 0's or in the form of True and False. Naive Bayes is a supervised learning algorithm, which means that we already know what the answer is going to be, we just have to train the model to identify the answer.
This model imports customer reviews about a restaurant in Mumbai, India called Dollally. The end goal of this model is to differentiate between a good and a bad review.

K-Fold Cross Validation is where a given data set is split into a K number of sections/folds where each fold is used as a testing set at some point. Example:In 5-Fold cross validation(K=5). Here, the data set is split into 5 folds. Reason for using KFold CV:It is a very useful technique for assessing the performance of machine learning models. It helps in knowing how the machine learning model would generalize to an independent data set. You want to use this technique to estimate how accurate the predictions your model will give in practice. This model uses dataset of various cars but for this excercise prediction is made for mpg based upon 'cylinders' and 'weight' alone.

A decision tree is a branching method to illustrate every possible outcome of a decision. It can also be used to assign monetary/time or other values to possible outcomes so that decisions can be automated. Decision trees are commonly used in machine learning for operations research, specifically in decision analysis, to help identify a strategy most likely to reach a goal.This model uses breast canacer dataset, and tries to check how accurate is the diagonisis given in the dataset.

SVM is a supervised learning algorithm used for classification and regression.It is one of the most poweful machine learning algorithm.A support-vector machine constructs a hyperplane or set of hyperplanes in a high- or infinite-dimensional space, which can be used for classification, regression, or other tasks like outliers detection. This model uses datasets that contains various features of mobile. The end goal is to be able to seperate those features based on the importance.

k-means is an unsupervised machine learning algorithm used to find groups of observations (clusters) that share similar characteristics. What is the meaning of unsupervised learning? It means that the observations given in the data set are unlabeled, there is no outcome to be predicted. We are going to use a Mall's Customers data set to cluster different types of customers. The goal of this model would be to segregate customers and find out which customers could be the target customers.This model uses datasset of customers from a mall. The end goal is the form a cluster to find which cutomer would buy products next time they visit the mall.


Principal component analysis (PCA) is a statistical procedure that uses an orthogonal transformation to convert a set of observations of possibly correlated variables (entities each of which takes on various numerical values) into a set of values of linearly uncorrelated variables called principal components. This model contains train and test data points of costumers in form of variable. The goal is to analyse which variable or customer is more likely to purchasse when they will visit the mall.


Image classification repo creates a CNN based model to differentiate between a cat and a dog
